# Introduction to python interpreter (Python 2.7)
>gist of the blog on python interpreter from http://akaptur.com/
___

## Functions and objects
```python
a = "hello"
```

Four steps happen when that line of code is to be excuted: lexing,parsing,compiling and interpreting.
__**Lexing**__ is breaking of the code you just typed into tokens. The __**parser**__ takes these tokens and 
generates a structure that shows their relationship to each other(Abstarct syntax tree).The __**compiler**__ then takes
the AST and turns it into code objects. Then the __**interpreter**__ takes each of these code objects and executes the code
it represnts.

Note: Function objects, Code objects and bytecode are all different things. 

### Function Objects
Function objects are the "function objects". Functions are first-class objects (In short, first class objects means it is same as other objects, there no exclusive restrictions on how we can use them) in python, like a list is an object or an isntance of ```MyObject``` is an object.

```python
>>> def  foo(a):
...     x= 3
...
>>> foo
<function foo at 0x02261B30>
```

In the above example, we are not invoking foo(There is difference between ```foo()``` and ```foo```). We can pass ```foo``` as 
an argument, or we can bind it to another name(```function_name = foo```). 

### Code Objects

```python
>>> def  foo(a):
...     x= 3
...
>>> foo
<function foo at 0x02261B30>
>>> foo.func_code
<code object foo at 02216C80, file "<stdin>", line 1>
```
As you can see, code object is an attribute of the function object. Function object has lot of other attributes too. 
A code object is generated by the python compiler and interpreted by the interpreter. It contains information that the interpreter
needs to interpret. Let's look at the attributes of the code object.



	
	
